# Design
Here is what I am planning for the first release. A server application (minimal GUI, mostly head-less), and a client application (cross platform, mostly GUI, modular). The server application can be run on multiple trusted devices, and be configured to federate together into a distributed ad-hoc network providing backend services for client applications that are invited and permitted to participated in the network. A user can own multiple devices, and have the same identity synchronized across each device with the help of the servers. Private messages between users and clients would have the option for being truly end-to-end encrypted between the parties, for privacy, and open group chats visible to all members of the server would also be available.

# Code Structure
There will be two top level code bases; the "backend", and the "frontend". The backend might be written in Rust, and will be used by both client and server applications to handle cryptography, networking, database, etc. The frontend will primarily be used by the client application to integrate with the backend library, and drive the GUI that users primarily interact with.

Initially, there will be a "proof of concept" phase of development; the code base will be messy, and have bugs, might waste memory and storage space, for the sake of convenience. The goal is just to add features and flesh out how they will interact with the rest of the project on a high-level. After there's a rough and working "demo product", the "polish" phase of development will begin, where we basically rewrite everything from scratch. There will probably be a lot of copying-and-pasting from the old code base into the new code base, but the set of features will sort of be "frozen" so we can focus on organizing the code a bit better, and make sure all the most obvious bugs are eliminated.
